# Sun_GAN
See [my honoursthesis](https://github.com/chemron/honours_thesis/blob/master/thesis.pdf) for a
full description of the system. 
## Environments
  
### Data processing
A conda environment used for all data processing tasks. A similar conda  
environment can be constructed from `requirements.txt` or using the command:    
`conda activate ./Data_env/`  
`conda create --prefix ./Data_env`  
`conda config --add channels conda-forge`  
`conda install sunpy=3.0.1 astropy=4.3.post1 numpy=1.21.1 drms=0.6.2
opencv=4.5.2 matplotlib=3.4.2 requests=2.26.0 scikit-image=0.18.2 imageio=2.9.0
pandas=1.3.1 pillow=8.3.1`
  
  
### Training/Testing
Training and testing of each GAN was done in a  
[Monarch](https://docs.monarch.erc.monash.edu/) environment created using the  
following commands:  
  
`module load anaconda/5.1.0-Python3.6-gcc5`  
`module load cudnn/7.6.5-cuda10.1`  
`module load tensorflow/2.3.0`  
These can similarly be unloaded by using the commands:  
`module unload anaconda/5.1.0-Python3.6-gcc5`  
`module unload cudnn/7.6.5-cuda10.1`  
`module unload tensorflow/2.3.0`  
  
## Pipeline: Data Preparation
The pipeline for downloading and preparing the data used throughout this project.  
### Data collection
Download fits data (SDO AIA/HMI, STEREO EUVI and phase maps):  
  `./Scripts/Data_collection.sh` or  
  `sbatch ./Scripts/Data_collection.sh` (Monarch).  
The STEREO data is downloaded such that it is synchronised with the phase maps.  
  
### Data processing
The processing pipleine consists of  
1. Converting SDO and STEREO fits data into local numpy arrays (.npy), and get  
   percentiles of the data  
2. Reproject the seismic maps (phase maps) from a Carrington Heliographic  
   projection to a Helioprojective-cartesian projection, convert to numpy arrays  
   and get percentiles.  
3. Remove outliers in each dataset  
4. change saturation for EUV and magnetogram data  
5. normalise data (put data between -1 and 1 for magnetograms, and between 0 and  
   1 for the other datasets)  
6. Remove trends in EUV data caused by instrument degredation  
7. Create a database (`image.db`) that maps the connections between the  
   different data types  
  
The data processing pipeline can be run as follows:  
`./Scripts/data_processing.sh` or   
`sbatch ./Scripts/data_processing.sh` (Monarch).  
  
## Pipeline: UV-GAN
The pipeline for generating synthetic magnetograms from EUV 304 Angstrom  
full-disk solar images. Trains by comparing SDO EUV images with SDO  
magnetograms. It is a good idea to initially run the GAN for a small number of  
itterations (e.g. 20) to ensure everything is working as it should before  
running a full scale model.    
1. Train model on SDO AIA EUV images and SDO HMI magnetograms:  
   `./Scripts/train_UV_GAN.sh` or   
   `sbatch ./Scripts/train_UV_GAN.sh` (Monarch). See `train_UV_GAN.sh` for  
   additional settings such as # itterations, model name etc.  
2. A plot of loss vs iteration can be generated by running  
   `Scripts/plot_flux_UV_GAN.sh` for a specified model. The resultant plot can  
   be seen in `Plots/loss.png`  
3. Evaluate model by testing model on AIA and EUVI data  
   `./Scripts/test_UV_GAN.sh` or     
   `sbatch ./Scripts/test_UV_GAN.sh` (Monarch). See `test_UV_GAN.sh` for  
   additional settings such as # itterations, model name etc. This additionally  
   applies a mask to selected outputs to aid in training the seismic GAN  

## Pipeline: Seismic-GAN
The pipeline for generating synthetic magnetograms from farside seismic maps.  
Trains by comparing farside seismic maps to synthetic magnetograms generated  
from STEREO EUV data. It is a good idea to initially run the GAN for a small  
number of itterations (e.g. 20) to ensure everything is working as it should  
before running a full scale model.    
1. Train model on seismic maps and synthetic STEREO magnetograms:    
   `./Scripts/train_seismic_GAN.sh` or   
   `sbatch ./Scripts/train_seismic_GAN.sh` (Monarch). See `train_seismic_GAN.sh`  
   for additional settings such as # itterations, model name etc.  
2. A plot of loss vs iteration can be generated by running  
   `Scripts/plot_flux_Seismic_GAN.sh` for a specified model. The resultant plot  
   can be seen in `Plots/loss.png`  
3. Evaluate model by testing model on seismic maps  
   `./Scripts/test_seismic_GAN.sh` or   
   `sbatch ./Scripts/test_seismic_GAN.sh` (Monarch). See `test_seismic_GAN.sh` for  
   additional settings such as # itterations, model name, testing set etc.  
  
## Evaluation:  
### Getting the unsigned magnetic flux vs time  
- The python script: `Data_processing/get_unsigned_flux.py` gets the unsigned  
  flux for a given dataset of normalised magnetograms, and saves it as a numpy  
  file in the directory `Data/unsigned_flux`.  
- the script `Scripts/get_flux_UV_GAN.sh` can be used to run this file on the  
  HMI dataset, and the output of the UV GAN, with options to specify the model,  
  iterations etc.  
- the script `Scripts/get_flux_Seismic_GAN.sh` can be used to run this file on  
- The file `Plotting/plot_flux.py` plots given fluxes vs time, and can be run  
  the output of the Seismic GAN, again with options to specify the model,  
  iterations etc. using `Scripts/plot_flux_UV_GAN.sh` or  
  `Scripts/plot_flux_Seismic_GAN.sh` to make plots corresponding to the UV GAN  
  or Seismic GAN respectively. These pltos can be found in `Plots/flux`.  
  
### Comparing GAN outputs with true magnetograms  
- You can make plots comparing the synthetic magnetograms with the true  
  magnetograms, by running `Scripts/compare_magnetograms.sh`, and specifying the  
  model, and iterations. The output will be in the folder:    
  `Data/[model]_on_[testing_set]/ITER[iteration]_comparison`  
  
### Miscellaneous Plotting:
- Plot percentiles of the different data types:  
  `python Plotting/plot_percentiles.py`  
   The plot will be created in the `Plots/` directory  
- View a numpy array from file (enter in path to file when prompted):   
   `python Plotting/view_specific_npy.py`    
   The plot will be created in the `Plots/` directory  
- Plot a magnetogram from numpy file (enter in path to file when prompted):  
   `python Plotting/plot_specific_magnetogram.py` The plot will be created in  
   the `Plots/` directory  
- Plot a dataset of magnetograms:  
  `Plotting/plot_magnetograms.py`    
  The plots will show up in the directory specified in the python file.  
